When you train an N-gram
on a limited corpus.
The probabilities of
some words may be skewed.
In this video, I'll show you how to remedy
that with a method called smoothing.
First, you will see an example of how
N-grams missing from the corpus affect
the estimation of N-grams probability.
Next, I'll go over some
popular smoothing techniques.
In the last section, I'll touch on other
methods such as backoff and interpolation.
Now that you've resolved the issue
of completely unknown words,
it's time to address another
case of missing information.
For example, how would you manage the
probability of an N-gram made up of words
occurring in the corpus, but
where the N-gram itself is not present?
Remember, you had the corpus of three
sentences earlier made up of N-grams like
eats chocolate, John drinks.
Notice that both of the words John and
eats are present in the corpus, but
the by-gram John eats is missing.
The count of the by-gram
John it's would be 0 and
the probability of the by-gram
would be 0 as well.
Everything that did not occur in
the corpus would be considered impossible.
An estimation of the probability from
counts wouldn't work in this case.
Smoothing is a technique that can help you
deal with the situation and N-gram models.
You might remember smoothing
from the previous week,
where it was used in the transition matrix
and probabilities for parts of speech.
Here, you'll be using this method for
N-gram probabilities.
What does smoothing mean?
Let's focus for
now on add-one smoothing which is
also called the Laplacian smoothing.
Add-one smoothing mathematically
changes the formula for
the N-gram probability of the word n.
Based off its history here, you can see
the by-gram probability of the word wn,
given the previous words wn-1.
But it's used in the same
way to general N-grams.
Add-one smoothing, it just says let's
add 1 both to the numerator and
to each by-gram in the denominator sum.
This change can be interpreted as
add-one occurrence to each by-gram.
So by-grams that are missing in the corpus
would now have a nonzero probability.
In the denominator, you're adding 1 for
each possible by-gram,
starting with the word wn-1.
This corresponds to adding 1 to each
cell in the row indexed by the word
wn-1 in the count matrix.
Then repeat this for as many times as
there are words in the vocabulary.
You can take the 1 out of the sum and
add the size of the vocabulary
to the denominator.
This will only work on a corpus where
the real counts are large enough
to outweigh the plus one though.
Otherwise, the probabilities of missing
words would be too high, but add-one
smoothing helps quite a lot because now
there are no by-grams with 0 probability.
If you have a larger corpus,
you can instead add-k.
This technique called add-k smoothing
makes the probabilities even smoother.
The formula is similar
to add-one smoothing.
Simply add-k to the numerator
in each possible N-gram in
the denominator where it sums up to
k by the size of the vocabulary.
So k-add smoothing can be
applied to higher order and
grand probabilities as well like
tri-grams, four-grams and beyond.
There are even more advanced smoothing
methods like the Kneser-Ney or
Good-Turing.
Another approach to dealing with N-grams
that do not occur in the corpus is
to use information about (N-1)-grams,
(N-2)-grams, and so on.
With backoff, if N-gram information
is missing, you use (N-1)-gram.
If that's also missing,
you would use (N-2)-gram and so
on until you find nonzero probability.
Using the lower level N-grams i.e
(N-1)-gram, (N-2)-gram down to uni-gram.
It distorts the probability distribution
especially for smaller corporal.
Some probability needs to be discounted
from higher-level N-grams to use it for
lower-level N-grams.
This Katz backoff method uses discounting.
In very large web scale corpus is a method
called Stupid backoff has been effective.
With Stupid backoff,
no probability discounting is applied.
If the higher order N-gram
probability is missing,
the lower order N-gram
probability is used.
Just multiplied by a constant.
A constant of about 0.4 was
experimentally shown to work well.
Let's use backoff on an example.
If you look at this corpus,
the probability of the tri-gram John
drinks chocolate can't be directly
estimated from the corpus.
So the probability of the bygram,
drinks chocolate multiplied by a constant.
In your scenario 0.4,
would be used instead.
An alternative approach to backoff
is to use the linear interpolation
of all orders of N-grams.
That means that you would always
combine the weighted probability
of the N-gram and
-1 gram down to uni-grams.
For example, when calculating the
probability for the tri-gram John drinks
chocolate, you could take 70% of
the estimated probability for tri-gram.
So John drinks chocolate plus 20%
of the estimated probability for
by-gram, drinks chocolate and
10% of the estimated uni-gram
probability of the word chocolate.
More generally, for tri-grams,
you would combine the weighted
probabilities of tri-gram,
by-gram and uni-gram.
You wait all these probabilities
with constants like λ1, λ1 and λ1.
These need to add up to 1.
The lambdas are learned from
the validation parts of the corpus.
You can get them by maximizing
the probability of sentences from
the validation set.
Use a fixed language model trained from
the training part of the corpus to
calculate N-gram probabilities and
optimize the lambdas.
The interpolation can be applied to
general N-grams by using more lambdas.
Now, you're an expert in
N-gram language models.
You know how to create them,
how to handle out of vocabulary words and
how to improve the model with smoothing.
You'll see that they work really
well in the coding exercises,
where you will write your first
program that generates text.